Welcome to the official Saster Podcast
where you can hear some of the best SAS
speakers. This is where the cloud meets
up today on the Saster Podcast. Frankly,
if you didn't accelerate growth at all,
you get a D because you had a year. You
had a year. I I give everyone a pass for
last year. I give everyone a big pass
for 2023. All these tools were kind of
terrible in AI. No one gets a pass this
year. You saw it coming. You saw it
changing. You saw these Aentic tools
getting better. If you didn't
reacelerate and you weren't in market
with a great agent, a great Aentic
product this year, you get a D minus,
but you don't get an F because you got
through the year, but you can't get a D
next year. It's you're late. So, this is
your job to go find it, right? Find the
tailwinds.
Hey, Sasser, imagine having agents for
every support tap. One that triages
tickets, another that catches
duplicates, one that spots churn risk.
That'd be pretty amazingly, right? Happy
Fox just made it real with autopilot.
These pre-built AI agents deploy in
about 60 seconds and run for as low as 2
cents per successful action. All of it
sits inside the Happy Box omni channel
AI first support stack. Chatbot,
C-Pilot, and Autopilot working as one.
Check them out at happyox.com/saster.
Hey everybody, Sasser annual will be
back May 2026, the world's largest SAS
and AI gathering for executives. Just
this last May, we hosted 10,000
attendees with 68 VP level and above
attendees, 36% CEOs and founders, and
25% were AI first professionals. It's
the very best of STER attendees and
decision makers that come to SAS annual
and AI summit each and every year. But
here's the reality, folks. The longer
you wait, the higher ticket prices get.
They're cheap now. They're cheap. So
just get them early lock in your spot
today. Use my code Jason 100 for
exclusive savings. Get your tickets at
podcast.sasterual.com
or just use code Jason 100 when you
check out. See you there. Saster annual
and AISummit 2026. It will rock.
The the theme of this session so much of
what we've done has been tactical. This
will be tactical in a different way. Is
what's your job for next year? And I
think a lot of folks that have already
been here today and yesterday have come
out and my job is to bring back a couple
of agents next year. My job is to
automate the GTM. My job is to move
faster
and use these tools. And that's all
great. And the rest of the year, our
whole theme will be very tactical. How
do the tools work? What works? What are
the blockers? But I think the most
important thing strategically for folks
here if you have not ex reacelerated or
accelerate this year is you've got to
find your tailwinds. You've got to find
your tailwinds. And and I'm going to
walk you through this in the next slide
that we're almost in a time of a
paradox. We we are in a time of an
almost paradox in 26. Some things are
much easier and certainly much faster
than just 18 months ago. Some things are
harder. And I want to walk through why
that's confusing when you dig into
trends, dig into data, and dig in what's
happening. And I'm going to I want to
spend 25 minutes or so walking through
what's really happening from buying to
funding to VC and more.
But your job is to grab some of this AI
mojo if you don't have it. We're not all
clay or artisan or uh anthropic or gamma
and that's okay. But there is budget out
there and there is incredible demand.
And even if you're not seeing the demand
for your own product, you can feel your
own demand for other vendors. There is
budget there and your job is to freaking
get it to attach to those headwinds for
real. I'm sorry, the tailwinds for real.
Not battle the headwinds, not battle
people that don't want to buy your
product anymore because it's not AA
native or doesn't do what you want. Your
job is to radically increase the
functionality of your product so you can
tap into the what buyers want to buy
right now, not what they wanted to buy
in 2023, let alone 2021. That's your
job. Your job is to find these tailwinds
cuz they're there, but it's not obvious.
So, let me kind of summarize this and
then I'll dig into it. And I know you
may know some of this, you may know a
little bit, but I'm going to go to it in
some depth, which is one of the things
that's most confusing, especially if
you're on the social medias, the
accessing LinkedIn is what the f is
going on venture capital because every
day we read about uh, you know,
superbase, you know, database for AI, 5
billion last week, two billion the week
before, 1 billion before that. We see
repletable from 0 to 200 million this
year going from, you know, in some cases
nothing to to 4 billion valuation. And
it's got to be easy, right? It's got to
be easy. I think most people in this
room will tell you it's actually harder
to raise capital despite these big deals
because a handful of big AI deals are
absorbing all the capital. And I'll show
you the data very crisply. So, it's a
weird time if fundraising matters to
you, if raising money matters to you,
because in some ways the dollars are
back to the craziness of 2021, but it is
not distributed evenly. of all the
venture capitalists here was going into
four deals. Four deals and 2021 was so
different than today. The the it was it
was it was demanded. It was being locked
down. There were so many things. But
beyond all that, it was very
distributed. There were and basically
any SAS company that could get to 20
million or so ARR back then was going to
grow triple digits and it was going to
get funded and was going to become a
unicorn. Okay. I remember sitting with a
leading VC in 2021 and he was telling
going down his portfolio and saying,
"Well, this one will be unicorn in about
90 days. This one will be unicorn about
110 days." This and that that's just the
way it worked. It was very distributed
and there's almost a thousand of these
unicorns from 2021 waiting to possibly
never go public. Okay, it is not as
evenly distributed today. It is very
concentrated in the very top and it
doesn't necessarily make most folks
lives easier. And I'll show you the
data. Half go into four deals. If the
number is the same and the dollar is the
same, but half going into four deals is
nothing like the last the the last wave.
This one's really important. I'm going
to show you the data. Software spend is
accelerating to a record level next
year, especially the enterprise. A
record level. It is reacelerating the
CIO's budget. But in 2021, in 2022, it
was evenly distributed. Everyone got
some, you know, every GTM tool, every e
signature tool, every zoomin tool,
everyone got some of this budget. Not
the way it's working now of this record
budget increase. According to Gardner,
which I'll show you, half is going into
price increases, right? A few years ago,
not everybody increased prices 7 or 8%
every year. Now, everyone's doing it to
fatiguing their base. So, half of this
record spend is going to price
increases. And it's not quite that
simple. It's not just raising prices per
se. It's also additional offerings from
the vendors which we'll dig into. So
half of this bonanza is going to
existing invent uh vendors which you
don't get and 30% of it is going into
new AI tools that they're bringing in.
It doesn't leave much left for all the
rest. And in fact what I'll show you is
if you're not in existing invest uh
vendors that are able to increase
pricing and you're not in a top AI
initiative, the number of vendors are
shrinking or flat. It's harder. Your job
is harder. So, you're only going to get
tailwinds if you're in one of these two
groups. Okay,
we'll show you this one. This is a
version. The first one,
interestingly, it feels like a unicorns
are back with a passion and then
decacorns and centicorns are even more
of, but it's concentrated. It's almost
as much money in dollars, but not in
deals.
And IPOs, man, I don't know how many of
you guys listen to the podcast that
we've done with Harry and Rory for about
five or six months.
when we started doing it, the IPOs just
started to come back. Um, and then we
had Figma, which rocketed 4x, right? I
think I haven't checked today, but
Figma's back down or below its IPO price
despite incredible growth. CLA IPOed,
got out, I think it's down 48% as of
today from its IPO. So, all this great
IPO energy that we had that kind of
culminated in Figma, but but there were
others. Um, a lot of them are still up
and some of them like Cororeweave that
are AI related are still strong, but
they're all down from their peak. And
IPOs are ending the year unfortunately
with a whimper with a whimper. We didn't
we didn't open up the floodgates for
IPOs. And it might have felt like that
on social media, but the reality is it's
not going to make it any easier for most
folks to go public. It is what it is.
It's life as founders we roll on. It's
been worse, but this was not as great as
it seemed for IPOs.
And and then the last one here, and then
I'll dig into the data,
but this is the tough one. It's almost
the paradox.
>> And it's literally never been easier to
scale to 100 million quickly as ever,
but only for a select few.
Only for again, listen, there were crazy
there were there were the the crazy
hoppins that went up and down. There was
the Zoom hysteria. There was a lot of
lot of stuff that happened in 2020 2021.
But but we were more on the same journey
then and a gamma will already went from
zero to 100 one to 100 this year. Replin
and lovable one to 200 million already
this year. You know I'm I'm a small
investor in a video app called
Higsfield. I you know I just found out
they did a million dollars on Black
Friday and already got to 100 million
this year doing video and they have tons
of competition. T I mean it's a great
app. I love this app. I've been a user
since day one an investor but it's not
they don't own the market. I mean it's
one of the best best teams but already
at 100 million this year. So if you nail
this AI product market fit this 2 by two
literally in our lifetimes has it's
never been easier in air quotes to get
to 100 million. It's a super cycle but
there's so much competition. folks are
getting cloned so quickly
and um there there's there's a there's a
friend of mine that a company I invested
in here that totally awesome AI very
disruptive I think launched about 60 ago
has four clones already none of them are
as good but again we talked about a
little bit this morning it's just faster
everything's faster so it's faster than
100 million less stable and more
concentrated so
you could uh say wo is me you could
stare at your
You could blame the the the economy. Uh
you can blame everyone else for raising
prices or you can figure out what the f
everyone else is doing. Go get a little.
Your job is to get some of that to go
get some of that. And you had, frankly,
if you didn't accelerate growth at all
this year, you get a D because you had a
year. You had a year. I I give everyone
a pass for last year. I give everyone a
big pass for 2023. All these tools were
kind of terrible in AI. No one gets a
pass this year. You saw it coming. You
saw it changing. You saw these Agentic
tools getting better. If you didn't
reacelerate and you weren't in market
with a great agent, a great Aentic
product this year, you get a D minus,
but you don't get an F because you got
through the year. But you can't get a D
next year. It's you're late. So, this is
your job to go find it, right? Find the
tailwinds. Okay. So, let's dig in. I
It's the whole presentation. If you want
to leave now and go do something more
interesting, you can. Okay, now I'm just
going to just going to dig into some of
the numbers. You don't have to say or
you can ask questions afterwards, but
just to show it visually. These are some
charts from SAS and and these two I I
regurgitated from Crunch Base, but it'll
kind of show you um I didn't have the we
we just ended November, but October 2025
was the highest on the right the highest
valuation
total capital raised by new unicorns in
three years. So, and you you get it.
We're not quite back at 2021 peak for
dollars into unicorns. I think we will
be next year, but but it's a number two.
But look at the left. The deal count's
like a fraction of what it was. The deal
count. This is just a visual
representation of the concentration. The
money's going back.
So many investors that I've known over
the years, so many actually classic SAS
and B2B investors that used to do seed
and net, they're doing anthropic at 80
billion, 100red billion. Um they're
doing ramp at 32 billion. Like these
they used to do a deals and and like why
are they doing this? Are these stupid
people? No. That that's actually where
the the easy money is, right? I mean
just said today Anthropic's going to
raise at 300 billion. So if you were a
VC and you invested at just 60 billion
or 80 billion, you're looking like a
genius rather than invested in some new
startup at the A stage and you're just
hoping your money doubles in two years.
Like it's just I I know it's air quotes,
but it's where the easy money is. And
not only is it easy to get if you get
into an anthropic or whatever, not only
is it easy to see your asset appreciate
on paper, it's easy because there's
liquidity. You can actually sell your
shares. And it's easy because, and
here's what's happening in venture, you
can put so much money in, right? It's
great if you put $5 million into a
startup at 50 million and then it
doubles to 100 million. Your five turns
into 10. That's great. The profit to the
whole VC firm is 20% of that, 2 million.
If you're able to put a hundred million
into enthropic into triples, right, then
you've made 40 million bucks for
actually less work because you didn't
have to find the company from scratch.
So, it's less work to make 10 times more
money. That's just math today and you're
seeing it here. And so, what if you talk
to investors here or you listen to the
podcast we do with Harry Rury, what
you'll hear is um and you'll see it if
you're an investor, most startups are
not doing great today. They're not. But
the ones that are really breaking out at
this crazy level, the investors are just
frothing at the gums to put more money
in. They shove money down founders
throats, it's just because there's
there's no ceiling to the best of them,
right? Anthropic isn't topping out at a
billion. Open AI isn't topping at a
billion. They're topping at a trillion.
And so you can just shove so much money
into companies now. That's the game
today, you see. And you just got to be
aware of it. It it almost seems silly to
do early stage investing on our pod. We
say C is for suckers. It's resonated. It
just seems so silly when you can just
put the money into in into a late stage
unicorn AI company and it quintiples in
a year. One year. One year. Why would
you do anything else? Why would you
struggle to find a startup, meet the
founders pre-revenue, figure out if
their 3K of MR is going to go to 30 to
learn the competition?
Why would you do that if you could just
invest in a leader and have your money
quintiple? something you you could argue
that it's that that it may come down,
but if but if you look at all the data,
it sure doesn't feel like this AI super
cycle is going to end next month or next
quarter or next year. So don't expect
venture capital to change. And so don't
expect I I've said it a lot on the pod
and others are talking about it. Don't
expect the classic triple triple double
double startup which is you do in B2B.
Don't expect it to get more attractive
to most VCs unless you're doing even
better because it doesn't make any math.
If you think, it's just a hard way to
make money. We're all kind of lazy.
We're all kind of lazy. Like, we're not
all super lazy. You're here. You came
here, but we all want to find the
fastest path to A to B. You know, VCs at
the end of the day are like sales reps.
They get 100 leads, but one of them is a
million-dollar deal that's going to
close in Q4. Where you going to put all
your time? All your You put 80% of your
time just standing around waiting for
the email. Did it get e-signed? Okay.
This the version VCs are doing today.
you know, it's just it's the easy money.
And and this is just a different one. I
I uh I took this from Excel's recent
analysis. It's up on Saster. This is
another way to see it on the right,
which is that total VCN dollars in are
projected to be about the same and 25 as
21 according to Excel. And that's great.
Excuse me one sec. So, in a sense, we're
back, right? And and again, I think 26
will be even bigger. So, we'll surpass
the dollars of 21. But look at the top
four deals are taking half the money.
Again, Mthropic X.AI, they're just
absorbing so much money because you just
put your couple hundred million bucks on
the table and you double or triple down
on a lot of money. They're just
absorbing so much money. Like overall
dollar is back, but again, it's into
less less than half the companies,
right? It's the rest of the money is
only going into half the companies. So,
a weird a weird market when 59.6% 6% the
model companies are taking all the money
and okay uh we kicked this one actually
I just made this slide like a week ago
it's gotten worse it will get better but
this is the IPO story so
just because ultimately listen one of
the thing great things about being a f
in a startup is you can kind of ignore a
little bit of the externalities as long
as you have runway as long as you have
time you don't really have to worry
about where NASDAQ is today you don't
really have to worry about IPOs. It
seems a while away. It's it's kind of
startups are harder than big companies,
but in a way you're in a bubble and it's
kind of comforting to just be in your
lane. You just do like the competition's
killing you. You don't have enough
people, but at least you at least you
don't have to worry about all all the ex
externalities. But this is um again I
saw this one the Excel and analysis
Excelscape that's on Saster
IPO came back but not much. Okay, so
there was a point in 2021 at the peak
moment, I forget when it was when it was
an IPO day. Okay, it obviously wasn't
the whole year. It would have been 365
46, but it was an IPO. Actually, I think
it was an IPO outside of tech. This is
just software and AI. So, um, it was an
IPO day in 2021 and then, um, Hashi Corp
was the last one in December of 2021 and
then the door just slammed in 2021. And
it was actually really weird because if
you around if you were in the market
back then 2022 things were actually
great for business like people kept
buying software. So in some cases growth
came down a little bit. 23 it started to
get hard to sell the same old boring B2B
products. It was still easy in 2022 but
man the IPO market slammed shut at zero
zero. I don't see any zeros going back
for more than a decade. That was a
crummy year for for tech IPOs.
I don't know what happened in 23 24 uh
oh 20 was 23 Clavio maybe Clavio is not
on this anyone know was Clavio 23 or 24
might have been 23 claio came out of
nowhere it's the hubspot for the Shopify
ecosystem HubSpot pre-commerce great
company 1.2 2 billion in revenue growing
I think almost 40%. May they IPOed and
then we had a few in 24. Rubric and
service titan were great ones stream an
interesting small one and then it seemed
like it was coming back in 25 but maybe
we'll end the year at 9 or 10 in tech.
It it it's not that much and worse on
the right again this is a couple days
ago. This is the this is the performance
from the peak.
So from Figma which is for many of us
probably the best one on the list. 74%
down from its peak. Chime minus 30. CL
is even worse. It's 47% today.
So like if you're if you're a public
market investor. Now listen, only so
many people buy at the peak, right? But
this doesn't get you excited, does it?
It doesn't make you like froth at the
mouth for another 10 IPOs or 20 IPOs
next week. It just puts a damper on the
market. And so we just have to adapt
that 2026 might be a banner year for IPS
27 might be, but we the data didn't end
up being so great like like we might
have thought it was mid year
and
this one's a tough one to internalize.
This is by if you talked and again
ventures venture is very important but
it's a very small slice of the world but
this is a tough one that I don't have a
lot of answers to. Today's about a lot
of answers. How do you do AI SDRs, BDRs,
AI revops, uh scale your team? We got a
lot of answers here. This is the one
that's tough, which is that
because the new AI companies are growing
so quickly, the winners are getting
younger. The winners are getting
younger.
65% are 0 to 3 years old. Now, it's not
universal. You know, on the on the
right, I took the screenshot from
lovable. One year to 6.3 billion, right?
Seems pretty pretty pretty crazy, but I
use Replet. They're both great. I I
actually don't really have a horse in
the race or an investment. Rapid
actually I think is almost 10 years old
and I think it was 6 years old as an IDE
and then it and then it was around and
its tanning was perfect when Claude 4
and everything worked and it blew up
equally as well as lovable. So not
everyone is the new kid on the block.
There are plenty of folks you've hear
today and there for every for every
lovable there's a replet or gam gamma
that was around for a long time and then
AI worked and it blew up. But overall
the the kids are younger these days not
just in age. There's some truth to that.
Certainly to go like to Y Coma, you meet
a lot of 18-year-old, 19-year-old
founders. Dropping out of Stanford your
first year is scene is very cool. It's a
change, but really it's that the
companies are so young. And why is this
kind of a bummer and it's great if you
if you did the level around a year ago,
right? But what it means is, and maybe
this isn't all bad, if you've been doing
this for a while, your VCs are just
going to check out on you. They're just
it's just n again like putting all your
money into enthropic. It's just natural.
If your company's around six, seven,
eight, nine, 10 years and you're looking
at this chart, you know what your job is
as investor, go find the next lovable.
Go find the next level. Now, it's not
all bad. Okay, the flip side is if
you're older and you're not a rocket
ship, your VCs probably just don't
investor probably mostly, at least in
the US, they just don't care anymore. Do
whatever you want. make a little bit of
money, run the company how you want,
grow 30%, 60%, 10%. As long as you don't
need more money, more power to you guys.
So, I don't see, you know, pre2020, I
think when when when growth slowed when
you were older, VCs would get agitated
and they they'd have meetings and they'd
talk forever and maybe even talk about
bringing in a new CEO or something. I
haven't heard anyone in years talk about
bringing a new CEO into a ventureback
startup. They just stop showing up.
I'm a little first I'm like could I do
the board meeting in Zoom then they move
to Zoom and they're just there
and as long as you don't need it like to
to me when I was a founder I took all
this stuff personally I still take it
personally today if you don't take it
personally it might not be a negative
you might have some freedom but just be
aware when you look at this chart it's
just natural as an investor not just to
chase the shenu object we're all human
beings but it's just where the money is
today for now today it's not that long
tail
And so
it's complicated. It's complicated. It's
also complicated for the thousand
unicorns from 2021 that maybe aren't
quite growing at the Figma level because
if you go back for a second, if Figma's
down 74% from its IPO high, you know how
many B2B companies are better than
Figma?
Like approaching nuns. Okay? Like very
few. So many of the unicorns in the
pipeline are very very very good
companies. They're just not quite
glowing at the rate Figma did at a
billion. Who's going to be excited about
them? Unfortunately, it's got to be you.
You've got to find your own excitement
because your investors in the markets
for the moment are not going to be
excited. Okay, let's come back. Let's
let's dig into this dichotomy. This is
the latest Gartner report I could find.
Folks sometimes make fun of Gartner.
Don't
don't because Yeah. Sometimes it's it
feels kind of like a a scam when you
have to pay for the to to be show up in
the report and everything. But honestly,
I don't know anyone that talks to more
CEOs and buyers of software than
Gartner. Okay. Do do are their
predictions always off a little bit each
year? Yes. But so are mine.
Even a lot of your plan a lot of your
plans on 1231 were not exactly where you
thought they'd be at the end of the
year. No one talks to more buyers. So I
think the trends and the the rough data
they see is about as good as it gets
just because they talk to the most. And
this is pretty crazy. Software spend
slowed for a while. It reacelerated in
25 because of AI to 11.9%
at 1.2 trillion. That's a lot. Okay,
that's a lot. That's not growing 12%. At
your AR, okay, this is an insane amount
of additional buying. Okay, this is and
they're predicting it's going to
reacelerate to 15.2 for software, 9.8%
overall for IT. That's a lot because for
a million reasons including the fact our
overall global economy is not going this
quickly, right? So we're going to put
more and more of and ultimately a fixed
amount of revenue in the world and in in
companies into software and into
technology. That's the good news. This
is a lot 11 to 15% of this level that's
an almost unprecedented level of
additional investment into software.
That's the the is unless you do
something you ain't getting any of it.
Okay, so let's let me I tried to
summarize all the leading analysts ISG
30% of the budget increases into AI.
Deote sim 36%. Mckenzie came in low at
20. That's still a lot. BCG Boston
Consulting Group AI is the number one
being reallocated from other categories.
Gartner top 1 to2 priorities across
almost all its se CIOS.
They're saying their their incremental
budget though is only going up 2.79%.
And they're budgeting 9% price increases
for next year. 9% price increases. So
what does all this mean? You got to
steal this budget from some of these
people. You got to steal it from other
AI need. We got to be a top free AI
initiative or steal it from the price
increases or you're not going to get it.
So I said steal or be stolen. It's up to
you. But you can't just stand around
like in past years and build a great
product. A great product that optimizes
workflow that has an ROI calculator on
your website that makes your your team
more productive. There's just no
freaking budget for it. Okay? AI is
about more than being productive.
Ultimately, it's about replacing or
augmenting humans and delivering
relatively rapid and massive ROI, much
more than traditional workflow and
database software. So, you either got to
be in this game or the budget's going to
be stolen from you for price increases
and to free up money for AI cuz there's
only so much.
So,
here I collected it a little bit just to
show it to you in a different way. Even
though
spend into software is going to be a was
a record this year growth of 11% and 15%
next year at this scale at over a
trillion the average public cloud
company's growth is coming down. You
know this but it's worse than this
because they're not grabbing the budget.
Palunteer is uh securities
other things are going well. Clavio is
tying into the great growth of
e-commerce as is Shopify.
Figma's got some of it. These are the
winners. These are the like five of the
top winners with the best AR multiples
that are public companies, but overall
we're we kind of get a D minus. The
leaders, the public companies get a D
minus for this year, too. It's not just
a few of us. A D minus because they
didn't tap into all that great budget.
Where's that acceleration? You see it in
this chart. I don't see any of it. I
seen consistent deceleration. There are
examples. MongoDB tapped back into it
this year. They reacelerated. Even
Twilio came back a bunch, but no one
really crushed it. They they let all
this money go to newer entrance. Okay,
it it it's a more power to our
investments and our friends that made
money from it, but pretty pretty bad job
by incumbents, not just some startups
and unicorns, but but the publishers
there. There are some exceptions
obviously Snowflake, data bricks on the
private side, Palunteer is crazy,
>> but we really didn't get it all. And so
you got to do it next year.
And and kind of know this, but I wanted
to break out. Actually, if you go to
saster.ai, our newer site, not.com,
we're still maintaining both. We can
talk about it if you want, but we have
market data where we pull all these top
companies and we show you exactly what's
happening every day. If you want in real
time, you can even get a real-time
newsletter. We show you multiples. It's
just for B2B. It's pretty cool. So, I
literally just copy this from
saster.ai/markets AI/Markets
and we update this every day live but it
just sh so so not only are we sort of in
an AI and nonAI world in many cases in
B2B like there's this massive multiple
divergence in today's world now this has
always been true faster growing
companies are worth more than slower
growing companies but it's just it's
very divergent say so these are public
companies um you've got to scale these
numbers up for startups obviously small
companies have to grow faster than big
companies is all things being equal. But
if you look at the left, if you're in
the top bucket, the ones at a billion
plus that are growing 30%. Rubric,
Palunteer, Figma, and others.
Figma is actually the low trader in this
group. They're still trading at 23 times
AR. That's pretty damn pretty damn good.
Now, it's kind of Palenter warps it as
does Rubric a little bit, but the
growth, but they're growing 43% as
public companies.
Public companies. That's a lot at that
scale.
The mo actually the ones in the middle
are holding up surprisingly well. The
ones that actually we saw a lot of
deceleration. The ones that aren't
decelerating that are growing 24% are
growing almost are almost 12 times
error. That's a pretty high multiple and
then you're just getting crushed at the
bottom. You're getting crushed when
growth is less than 20%. 4.9 times AR. I
wrote up pag your duty this week growing
4% and now profitable trading at two
times revenue 500 million in air worth a
billion event today I think sold at one
time revenue to bending spoons okay so
like the markets the public markets only
expect pretty good growth and actually
it's you get a great deal you actually
don't have to grow at 2021 rates to get
really high multiples but you got to
grow this will help you triangulate the
buckets
huge premium for growth. If for some
reason, even after this year, you think
being profitable is enough. It may be if
you're bootstrapped and you're making a
lot of money and put it in your own
pocket. If you know, if you're Valve or
someone like that, uh, you know, and
you're bootstrapped and you just bought
yourself a $500 million yacht last
month, more power to you, right? I don't
know whether it really matters how much
Steam and Valve grow when you're making
$4 billion in profit a year, four, five
billion, six. I mean, you want to grow,
but maybe four billion in profit is
enough for 300 employees. Okay? I don't
know. But most of us are not like that.
We have to grow. And so, listen, a lot
of a lot of folks had to cut or get fit
because their their runways were
shortened. They can't raise another
round for the reason we talked about.
But profitable is not enough unless
you're utterly insanely profitable like
Zoom. For every dollar Zoom brings in,
50 cents goes to the bottom line. Okay?
Pedro dudy and others don't do that. You
got to grow and otherwise you're going
to be worth 2x like page of duty or 1x
like Eventbrite. You don't want to be in
that box. You just don't want to be in
that box. Massive split in valuations.
Here's another one that looked good at
first. If you didn't dig in, this is
from like a week or two ago. Adobe
trying to get into the AI game on the
marketing side buys SEM Rush, Semrush
because they wanted to be into GEO, LM,
LLM
optimization. So even though SCM Rush is
it's actually bootstrap kind of a cool
story even though they're older they do
have a lot of good instrumentation to
sort of see where you show up in in in
the LLMs and chat GPT and and and claude
and all that and and Adobe needs
something today because actually 30% of
Adobee's revenue is selling to
marketers. It's not it's not creative
cloud and others. It's the whole
marketing more enterprise side. So they
buy them for 1.9 billion sounds like a
lot but it's only three times the next
12 month sales even with a huge premium.
This is pay because when you buy a
public company nine times out of 10 you
have to pay higher than the public stock
price or most folks won't sell. Like
even with Eventbrite selling at 1x today
I think it was still like a 50 or 60%
premium that bending screen had to pay.
Otherwise people just won't they won't
fill in their proxy form or sign the
deal. So even with Adobe paying a huge
premium it's only 3x revenue. No we
don't want to sell for 3x revenue guys.
Okay we don't want to do it. So,
and there's just a massive split in
valuation for growth.
Okay, let me summarize a couple other
things. Um, I I know this see might seem
obvious to some folks, but I still think
90% of folks don't get this even maybe
don't get it that is the wrong thing.
Maybe they want to believe something
that isn't quite true that they want to
believe. Folks I've talked to here today
and yesterday, they get it. They're
here. they're obsessed with AI for B2B
and um
they're a little behind. They didn't
build gamma or replet or or whatnot
and they want to build a co-pilot. They
want to build a little AI that makes
your product better. And listen, those
are great and all of us should have a
co-pilot. I personally honestly if if
there is a B2B app and I can't talk to
the app and solve my problems, if I have
to like figure it out from a clunky UX
or like a help menu, I don't even want
to use those apps 2025. I I want to talk
to the app. I want the app to tell me
how to use it and be better, but I'm not
going to pay you two or three times as
much because you have a cool copilot or
a nice chat. That's not enough. It's not
enough. Like AI features don't count.
They're necessary but not sufficient to
grow. And we just I don't want to pick
on Pataguty, but 500 million only worth
a billion. Look at Pedroduty's website
right now if you want patre.com. It says
AI all over it. They've got AI
monitoring, AI uptime monitoring, AI
this, AI that. It don't matter unless
you're replacing a large part of DevOps
humans with AI. It doesn't count because
there's no extra budget. So where is
this budget coming from? At the end of
the day, you know, I break it up into
three groups. And which one are you? A
co-pilot is none of them. A feature
alone is none of them. Where do you get
this budget? The part that Gartner is
talking about. Replacing humans. It's
brutal but true. You know, two things
took off quickly in AI. Um software
development, we all know cursor at a
billion and all the rest. We could talk
about it if we want. But also, if you if
for some reason you don't follow it, you
probably do. Contact center blew up.
Support, you know, the existing
investors. Zenes reacelerated even
though it's private. Uh Sierra went from
nothing to 100 million in one year.
Duckagon, lots of others. Intercom was
just here. Finn, they their AI products
at 100 million right after the the
company growth slow. We just we use Turk
chief product officer today. And is it
because the AI is cool? No. Honestly,
they're cutting half their support
teams. You know, Mark Beni off said even
at Salesforce, they're growing. They're
adding more headcount in sales and
marketing, but I think he's I know the
numbers. I think three or 4 thousand
folks in support they already replaced
with AI and their own AI and and um
support CIA force but that's thousands
of humans now they they reskilled some
and moved them into other departments
and moved around the headcount.
Salesforce is investing that's a lot of
change. Okay. And people didn't buy this
AI support software because it was cool
or because it was a co-pilot. They
bought it to get rid of headcount and
that is going to accelerate next year.
And there's if you can if you can get
rid of a hundred million of head there's
probably room for a couple hundred
thousand a year of your tool. Okay.
Two and the the these are different. If
you truly augment humans dramatically I
should have put dramatically in the
color not not augment humans
dramatically. You know I don't know how
many folks here use cursor.
Okay now for similar right. I mean I'm
more I'm not that that I'm not technical
enough. I use replet but it makes you so
much more effective so much more
effective people if you guys haven't
used any sort of vibe coding tool or
cursor or or for non-technical folks
rapid or lovable or something you might
not get it like when we even in May when
we were at SAS annual people you know
the the idea was oh I'll make my
developers 30% more productive with
these tools okay like like okay I I'll
spend a couple hundred bucks a month
maybe 500 bucks a month and they'll
magically be more productive like
they'll just create more features and
there's truth to that but it's much more
than that like if you're deep on cursor
or other tools you're never going back
it fundamentally changes the way we
build software like cursor and all these
other tools up in level have ingested
every piece of open source and probably
a lot of closed source software it they
have all of it so anything you want to
build that has been built before can be
built in mints or moments so know if you
yesterday And yesterday morning, I built
a game called um Vaporale.Aa. Try it
right now. It's super cool. It's got
cool music. You sell a product that that
should exist but doesn't. You've got to
convince prospects to buy something
that's AI and trendy, but it doesn't
work. It's kind of a fun little game. I
mean, I built this in one hour.
Actually, I built I built it in less.
And why? Because honestly, it's just
stealing someone else's code. It's got a
fresh skin on it. I gave it the right
prompts and the right ideas, but it's
already in the code. And so why would
anyone go back to like writing this code
from scratch like you had to do a year
ago?
You wouldn't, right? So this is
radically augmenting humans these types
of tools. I mean, you you know yourself
even if you don't chat GBT or cloud,
you're not going back, right? You're not
going back. So but this is radical
augmentation
or three an incredible level of
productivity. So when we when we talk
about our stack, we talk about a bunch
of these, but like and I I don't mean to
keep going back to the well, but like we
use Gamma to make all our sales
collateral instead of Google Slides or
PowerPoint. Isn't that like a little bit
better? Like in 5 minutes, it pulls all
of our data from our CRM and otherwise.
It knows everything about the prospect
and it creates a beautiful dynamic
presentation completely customized to
them in 5 minutes and we pay 100 bucks a
month.
That's like one of the best deals on
planet Earth. We're not going back. But
most folks, classics, they're just not
going that far. They're only making
their products better. I'm sorry. That
was enough in the old days. It ain't
enough. You got This is where the budget
is. It's not enough for AI to make your
product better. You got to replace
humans. Turn us into like cyborgs. I
guess I'm going to rename section two
cyborgs. I'm human AI hybrid and Claude
or Replet. Maybe even Harvey. Arguably,
we're hybrids, right? We work together.
and more insane productivity order of
magnitude more productivity before
honestly sit down and ask yourself are
these the tools you built this year or
do they just make your product nicer
if you didn't if you spent this whole
year building AI tools for your BD
product and you didn't see any
additional growth I bet you're in the
fourth bullet and not and not the first
three
>> and okay
another way to think about this
>> okay
>> and maybe this is my penultimate point.
People call this a super cycle. VCs call
it a super cycle.
Wh why is this a a super cycle? This is
an important point. I've talked about
this a couple times in the 20 VC pod
that we're going to do live
>> in about an hour. And but this is the
this is why you've got to be in market
with an AI product A and B because
everyone's in market at the same time.
So what SAS blow up in 2020 and 2021,
right? It it wasn't just that for a few
months, everyone worked at home. Okay?
It wasn't just that because half the the
US economy was essential workers. Half
the f folks still had the same jobs.
They still went to Starbucks. They still
went to the hospital. And they still do
all these things. And that kind of ended
in a lot of red states by the end of the
year. Okay? I was split. I don't know
about you. In 2020, I was split between
blue and red. Okay? I'm not political,
okay? Up in the bear, it it was it was
like a sci-fi post-apocalyptic thing.
Half the time because of family reasons,
I lived in Orange County in Southern
California. It was like they never
happened.
People were playing taking school buses.
They were eating inside in restaurants
even though it wasn't even allowed. It
wasn't what happened wasn't just this.
It was what it drove a thing where
everyone was in market at once. Every
enterprise decided they needed these
tools. Every enterprise there was so
much change. They needed a contact
center where you didn't have to come to
work for a while. They needed e
signatures. They needed zooming was the
most crazy one. They needed all that.
And what happened was instead of the
traditional five to 6% of prospects
being in market a month, which is a way
a lot of marketers think about things,
right? I'm going to I'm going to try to
reach everyone in my in my universe, but
the only 20% are really in my ICP. And
of that 20%, maybe four to five to 6%
are in market, right? So if you start
doing the math, you're lucky if 1% of
your list of your database actually is
going to buy this year, right? Because
you think about how many folks are in
market, you know, because you know, if
your tools are working great, it might
take five or eight years to even decide
to switch them out. When I was back when
I was at Adobe and we moved to
Salesforce, it took Adobe 5 years just
to move to Salesforce, a big company.
How long would it take you? They never
moved off. But if you were going to move
off, it would be like a decade, right?
So folks were rarely in market. But in
2020 21 everyone was in market. Now it's
happening again with AI and there some
of it is productivity but a lot of it is
just it you know this from your
customers CIOS on down have a massive
initiative to drive to bring AI
innovation to the company and have
massive productivity gains and so
everyone's in the market but you've got
to be a need a need and I just kind of
wrote this up to myself. I need we've
heard this today so many sessions so
many folks I've talked today need an AI
GTM tool. Do they really need it? Will
their companies die without it? No. But
they want a Clay or Qualifier Artisan or
other folks you've talked to. They need
it. They're finding. They want to bring
this tool in. I need it. I need AI
support. We talked about I need AI legal
review. I need AI coding. I need AI
security. Not only Rubric and Instagram,
we had Aikido Security this morning.
That's that that's blowing up because
they need this for AI. So,
are you this are you one of the
categories of products that buyers feel
feel right or wrong? Just like we didn't
maybe we didn't really need all these
products during 2020 and 21. The world
with hindsight was more normal than we
thought. But do they feel like they need
this product right now? If not, you're
not gonna get any budget. So how do you
be I need this for AI? That's what
you've got to build
in the first half of next year so you
don't become obsolete.
Another
couple points why some of the best ones
are blowing up and why others are
struggling. The best B2B AI
enables TAM expansion. TAM expansion. So
a lot of those public companies, they've
reached TAM saturation often because
they're only single product or double
product. They don't really have a suite.
They can't build as much as Data Dog.
They can't build 12 products or 20
products. They've saturated. and they've
gotten to double digits of their market,
>> but because the best AI products do so
much more, they can charge more. So,
Gamut 100 bucks a seat, which are the
our PowerPoint AI tool, like 100 bucks
is not that much money compared to what
a lot of you charge, but it's a lot more
than Google Slides or Canva, which are
basically free. We already pay for G
Suite. It's free.
You may already pay for Office, and
that's free. Can you get everything for
like N bucks, okay? And we're still
paying 100 bucks a month. That's a lot
more tail.
Cursor at all. Cursor, all all the rest,
wind surf, all these other tools. It's
so Think about it for a minute. At
Lassian got incredibly successful
selling Jira and other products for five
bucks a month with discounts to folks at
companies. Now folks will spend $400, in
some cases $5,000 on cursor. That's why
it goes to a billion. It's so much TAM
expansion. It is so much more than a
project management tool or a bug
tracking tool. It is so much more TAM by
that productivity. And we've almost
adnauseium here about AISDRs and VDRs.
These products ain't all cost a lot more
than one seat of sales of HubSpot or one
seat of Salesforce or one seat of Zoho
CRM or pick your I mean do you know any
any CRM that costs 50k to 100k a year
for for I'm slightly exaggerating. It's
not really one seat, but these these
guys are blowing up because the products
unlock huge TAM expansion, huge TAM
expansion by replacing a lot of humans,
a lot of SDR, and none of these guys
would be remotely as successful if they
had to charge like traditional SAS
companies. You know, if all these folks
out here had to charge five bucks a
month like Notion, they wouldn't be
here.
Some of them, they couldn't afford to be
here. They couldn't afford to fly
anybody out or come out here because of
TAM expansion. And so this is the way
the game has changed. And so if your
co-pilot isn't really letting you charge
more for your product, it's not because
your sales team isn't good enough or
your product marketing, you don't have
the right jirens and vowels and colors
on your website or the right or the
right fonts. It's because you added so
much value that you unlock so much TAM.
So much TAM. Some of these guys, their
software is better than you, but it's
not like they're so much better at sales
and marketing than you. They just unlock
so much time. So, you got to be honest.
Does your AI product for 2026 enable you
to charge five times or more than what
you're charging today. And earn it. Not
shove it down people's throats, but earn
it. Earn it. That's that's the unlock
here. Charging for your co-pilot that no
one wants. No one want Microsoft learned
no one wanted to pay an extra 20 bucks a
month to talk to Word. Okay, that was
the great innovation. And even Microsoft
couldn't get people to buy that. Okay?
It doesn't work. No one wants a a
mediocre co-pilot.
And a couple more points.
I'm talking about 2026 because even
though listen, you guys all get a P. We
all get a pass. But even though some
folks are getting D minuses or C's for
this year, sorry to be direct. I'm just
trying to be helpful with love. It's all
said with love.
There isn't infinite, but there's still
time. There's We are early here. I don't
know if we can all catch cursor. Okay,
it might be a little late,
>> but there is time. I picked two
examples.
Cleo, Jack Newton, old disaster OG from
the beginning. Legal tech really. They
they added fintech into work for him and
they raised a three billion and then
they added AI to their product in the
last year and legal for for legal case
management five billion. founded in
2008. 2008 Gal I've talked to too much
but founded in 2020 didn't really work
before AI now 100 million and with just
50 employees
in those there are a few of you who who
probably no one here you wouldn't have
come there are a few of us in the
broader session that have already lost
to AI n to so-called AI native folks
you've lost again woe is woe is us I
don't think it's true for most folks you
have time you don't have infinite time
but it's early it is early what I can
tell you the the Salesforce team is here
with Asian Force. What I've learned
and and uh is that learned it from Mark
and lots of others is like yeah there's
a segment of Salesforce
44 billion of AR whatever they're at
that needs these tools tomorrow but a
lot of the traditional industries
haven't even started right for I'm not
telling you to go buy public stocks but
I'd be long on Salesforce even if the
market wasn't sure this year because
it's just getting going with this spike
the demand is just getting going. find
like don't go and directly compete with
the folks that already get a couple
hundred million this year unless you
know you're on the better engineering
team than them. But so much of this is
still early. So many folks are found
their wind this year. This should be you
next year. It is not too late. But
eventually if you don't catch up with
your agentic product with your native AI
product, if you don't catch up next
year, your direct competitors will and
then you will lose market share. You
will lose market share.
The one thing the honest thing to ask
yourself and if you're founder is maybe
not even to share with below your
management team at the end of each year
you have to be honest did we gain or
lose market share this year did we gain
or lose market share this year even if
you grew 50% this year if your
competitor grew 100% and you know you're
at the same sorry got normal you lost
this year okay did you gain market share
every year that's important but in the
world of AI it's even more important
because it can sneak up on you. Be
honest. There was one startup I worked
with that has just crossed 100 million,
pretty good year, pretty good AI
product. Couple quarters ago, they
started deleting the competition slide
from their board deck where it first
first time it was a hidden slide, you
know, went from shown to hidden slides
and then it disappeared. Why? They
weren't gaining share anymore. Okay, now
I kind of gave the co a pass. I I I
brought it up between me. I wouldn't
bring it up in front of the team. You
got if you're not honest about gaining
share, you won't gain it next year.
You'll lose it in today's world. So, so
ask yourself honestly. Figure out who
your direct competition is. Find a way
to track your share. Figure out their
era. Figure out their growth. Go on the
internet. Figure out every metric you
can find out number of customers. Scrape
it. Use tools. Even if you have to use
uh web traffic as a a crummy proxy, but
make sure in the age of AI you are
gaining share. And don't hide behind it
if you're not.
Okay, maybe a couple other paradoxes and
then we really will wrap.
This is just a trend to think about as
we for 2026. It's complicated.
Leaner teams are real. Now, Gamma just
said I'm not I'm going to gamble, but I
just noticed the last you know two
billion valuation 100 million ARR 50
employees. uh lovable and replet both
under 100 employees per I think it it's
a little bit confusing but whether
they're under 100 anymore they were
under 100 they'll be under 300 the these
are very lean teams but some of them
have 100% inbound in dramatic demand and
no sales team okay so if you have no
marketing costs and no need for a sales
team temporarily you can and you have
one product you can actually be pretty
lean right one product no sales team no
marketing expense it is easier to be a
little lean than a traditional B2B
company, but everyone is getting leaner.
And this isn't about layoffs um or uh or
just getting more profitable because as
we just talked about with page your duty
and slow growth, just being profitable
isn't enough. It it's not going to give,
you know, selling for one times your
revenue is not worth it. You've you've
all worked too hard to sell your
companies for one times revenue. So,
this isn't just about getting fit. 2022
and 2023 was about getting fit because
now you can say this without getting
your head cut off. We were way too we
were we had way too many employees
running around in 2021 doing nothing. We
had too way too many marketers spending
90 days doing an infographic. Okay, we
just were everyone was bloated. Okay,
everyone was bloated. There's a million
things going on now. Some of it is
replacing humans with AI. Some of it is
is other things. But we're just all
going to get leaner and leaner and
leaner in terms of employees
air per employee. It's not going to
reverse itself. There is no trend to
reverse itself. So the new guys are
getting more efficient, but everybody is
essentially getting much more efficient.
What there's a little too much chart
going on on the right. It's showing up
more in early stage companies and latest
stage companies where there's more
bloat, but it's still happening.
And then just briefly, I don't want to
go too much into this um because we've
had a lot of time. I guess I didn't need
the whole hour, but
a weird thing being this just this turn
on the right. I've talked a little bit
about it before, but
it's something important to not be to
not accidentally be arrogant about or
pat yourself on the back. Yes. Are a lot
of AI companies burning a lot on tokens,
burning a lot on inference, burning a
lot on AI, yes, but but their burn
multiples are lower than traditional
companies because they're growing so
quickly. Now, you've got to keep that
that wheel going. But if oh my god
you're like oh you can make fun of this
AI strap. Those guys burn a million
bucks a month on inferris. Okay that's
not sustainable. Their margins are 40%.
Yeah but if they added 50 million of ARR
it's wildly efficient.
Okay if they slow to 10% you get crushed
but par another almost paradox. The
fastest growing AI companies are burning
more A and their gross margins are lower
but their burn multiples are also lower
because they're adding so much revenue.
It's worth it. It's worth it to win this
AI war at least for the next couple
years. And here's two versions of this.
Here's HubSpot and Salesforce.
Obviously, probably every single person
in this room uses HubSpot or Salesforce,
so I picked them. Since 2021, this is
their efficiency ratio, their their
revenue per employee. HubSpot up 2.6x.
Even Salesforce up 2.2x. Microsoft, old
Microsoft has passed peak employee is
coming down. Not only is Microsoft's
efficiency going down, it's absolute
number of headcount is going down and
trending down. I mean, it can't go down
to zero. I mean, Microsoft's pretty big
company. Everyone is, it's not just the
startups. It's not just gamas and
cursors. Everyone is getting radically
more efficient. And what that all means,
how you all do it, I don't know. But
this is not again, this is not about
layoffs, and it's not just about uh uh
agents. This is just how we're building
software today. We're building it
radically more efficient. And honestly,
the the toughest thing, the most honest
thing I can tell you for 2026 is if you
go into 2026 and you still have folks on
your team, and I still see this at
startups and you want them to double
next year and they need to triple their
team, move on from that executive.
If they want to double next year and
they need to increase their team 50%.
Sounds good to me. Okay. I'm still in
too many conversations where the excuses
I hear from CRO, from CPOS, from CMOs is
I just don't have enough headcount. Like
these are companies that are not that
efficient. They're not running out of
money. They're not that efficient. And
why aren't you growing quicker? Well, I
need another 100 people. I need another
200 people. I need another 40 product
managers and another another 30 people
on the marketing team. Just kindly thank
them. Give them a package and move on
for them. It's not the world. That is
the past. They're still living in the
past. So my summary and then we will
break. The growth is there. Gardner says
it's going to be record
software spend next year. almost record
total it record software spend and
reaceleration it's growing 50% faster
next year software spend that is an epic
amount of dollars to go capture hundreds
of billions of dollars going into
software there's hundreds of billions of
new revenue can't you get a little bit
of a hundred billion just you don't need
all hundred billion you just need like
some millions
it really is around you could so the
dollars are there this should this is
the best of times
But not not for not for all of us. It
was the best of times for almost
everybody in 20 and 20 21 almost
everybody. It really was. You just
needed a CRM, a call center, a a support
desk, an e signature tool, and you were
a genius. It's only for the beneficiary.
So guys, in 2026, B1, thank you.
Hey Sasser, imagine having agents for
every support tag. One that triages
tickets, another that catches
duplicates, one that spots churn. That'd
be pretty mainly, right? Happy Fox just
made it real with autopilot. These
pre-built AI agents deploy in about 60
seconds and run for as low as 2 cents
per successful action. All of it sits
inside the Happy Omni Channel AI first,
support stack, chatbot, co-pilot, and
autopilot working as one. Check them out
at happyox.com/aster.